[Kiama](https://bitbucket.org/inkytonik/kiama) is a Scala library for language processing including attribute grammars, term rewriting, abstract state machines and pretty printing.

This is a simplification, enhancement and bug fix release cross-published for Scala 2.10, 2.11 and 2.12. It includes some API changes that may require source code changes in clients of the `Tree` and `Relation` components. It also includes major performance improvements in these components.

### Potentially breaking changes

 * `Relation`: `unapplySeq` replaces `unapply` on relations and returns the image of the matched value as a sequence. The old usage of matching a single value and failing otherwise still works, since the pattern `rel(x)` succeeds if the image contains one value. Since the whole image is now returned you can check for other image structures such as the empty image `rel()` and one that contains at least one element `rel(a, rest @ _*)`.

* `Relation`: the `pair` extractor on relations now uses `unapplySeq`. It returns the matched value and that value's image in a single sequence. Thus, the pattern `rel.pair(n, x, y)` succeeds if the matched value has a two-element image, binding `n` to the matched value, `x` to the first element of the image and `y` to the second element of the image.

* `Relation`: API no longer contains uncommonly used relational operations (`collect`, `compose`, `containsInRange`, `index`, `preImage`, `preIndex`, `projDomain`, `projRange`, `union`, `withDomain` and `withRange`).

* `Tree`: the constructor now has a `shape` argument to specify constraints on the tree structure. The available shapes are: `LeaveAlone` that means we assume the provided tree structure is ok, `CheckTree` that causes a dynamic check that the structure is actually a tree and throws a `StructureIsNotATreeException` if it isn't, and `EnsureTree` that ensures that the structure is a tree by cloning any shared nodes. By default, the `shape` argument is `LeaveAlone` which changes behaviour since shared node cloning was always performed in the previous version. If there is a chance that your structure is not already a tree, restore the previous behaviour by passing `EnsureTree`. The `rewriteTree` operation in the `Rewriter` passes `EnsureTree` by default since sharing often occurs after rewriting.

* `Tree`: old `siblings` relation is now called `sibling` which better matches the naming of relations such as `child`.

* `Util`: simplify `Memoiser` by removing use of traits and separate classes

### Enhancements

* `Relation` and `Tree`: major performance improvements primarily due to replacing an embarrassing linear search with an identity-based cache to access relations .

* `Parsing`: distinguish between parser *failures* that are local and can be avoided by trying another alternative and parser *errors* that cause the parse to terminate without trying other alternatives. Added  `~/` cut sequence operator that commits to the current alternative on the right. I.e., `p1 ~/ p2` will return an error if `p2` fails. In contrast, `p1 ~ p2` fails if `p2` fails. Added 'nocut(p)' method to stop propagation of errors outward from within parser `p`.

* `Util`: include message labels in sort criteria after message location so messages at the same location are now in a well-defined order.

### Bug Fixes

* `Rewriter`: structures that contain case classes that extend `AnyVal` are now rewritten correctly by unboxing the value where necessary.

* Handling of source file paths should now work properly on Windows (contributed by Matt Pigram).
* `Source.dropPrefix`:
** Avoid separator bug when dropping filename prefixes when there is no prefix.
** Don't drop if there is a partial overlap.

### Other

* Source reorganised to match standard Maven/Sbt structure.
* Tidied and simplified build specs, removed Build.scala, moved to sbt 0.13.13
* Moved to Scala 2.12.1 as default version
* Moved to ScalaTest 3.0.0, ScalaCheck 1.13.4, Scallop 2.0.5, Guava 21.
* Fix URLs in POM that pointed to old Google Code setup.
